[Music]
[Applause]
[Music] Dear
esteemed friends, at this time,
please join hands and recite the
sacred name of the Buddha to pray for his blessings.  Namo
Buddha
Shakyamuni
.
Namo Buddha, the original teacher Shakyamuni
Homage to the Buddha, the original teacher Shakyamuni, and to
all fellow
practitioners.
Our club for
spiritual practice consists of two parts.   The
first part involves practicing and
studying the Dharma at Ba Vang Temple,
discerning the teachings to understand the Buddha's words and then
applying them to
daily life.  From beginningless time until now,
we have all acted in accordance with wrong views in our three actions of body,
speech, and mind.  I have come to
Buddhism, and I will learn the Buddha's teachings so that
we can have a better life at home.  Every
thought, every word, every action I
take should be in accordance with the Buddha's teachings so that
I may find happiness and live in accordance with the
law of karma.  Then, in future lives, we will
have the opportunity to become monks or nuns and practice the path to
liberation.  As lay practitioners,
we only practice defiled practices
and cultivate karmic connections with unblemished practices, such as observing the
Eight Precepts for one
day and one night on the eighth day of the lunar month.
Dear fellow practitioners, in
practicing the Buddha's teachings, we must progress from the lowest to the
highest levels.  We lay practitioners also
practice the Four Right Efforts: preventing evil,
eradicating evil, generating good, and increasing good.
Then, prevent evil from within your own heart, eradicate evil
within your own heart, and then help others to
prevent evil from within their own hearts as well, eradicating evil right
within their own hearts.  That is also the
Buddha's teaching for all sentient beings.
So, dear fellow practitioners, one of the
activities in our club
is to spread the light of Buddhist teachings to a
wider audience.
So that everyone can understand
Buddhist teachings and diligently practice them.
In our activities, one aspect
is that
when families experience the death of a loved one, such as
parents, siblings, or relatives,
Vietnamese customs and traditions
still require funeral rites, burial ceremonies, and
interment.  When it comes to funeral rites and
burials, we still follow
that erroneous belief that the
deceased behave the same way as the living
.  Therefore, in families, when
parents die, the children divide the property,
which harms the moral values ​​of
siblings within the household.  Then we
kill animals for sacrificial offerings, and that is
also an evil deed.  So
how can we minimize
evil deeds at funerals and leave a moral legacy for the
remaining relatives of the deceased?
There are many siblings in a
family who love each other while their parents are alive,
but after their parents die, even
with just a little bit of inheritance, they
can lose each other.  Sometimes they
even do very bad things.  So,
at this funeral,
as Buddhists,
how can we skillfully apply the teachings of the Buddha
to awaken the human compassion
in each of the deceased's children? The
greatest human compassion of all is filial
piety.  When a child thinks of their parents,
they will regain their moral integrity.
So we usually hold
funerals to chant prayers.   The
primary meaning is to allow the living to
reflect on whether they have been unfilial
and to thus cultivate a sense of
remorse.  I regret what I have
done.  And they have a motivation for change that
makes them better people, living
with more love and care for one another.
That applies to the children in the family.
As for the spirits of the deceased, we have
learned from the Buddha's teachings in the Nikaya scriptures
that hungry ghosts listen to the scriptures.  There, the mother and daughter demons are
listening to the scriptures.  The hungry ghosts were liberated upon hearing the scriptures
.  So we came to chant scriptures.
Not only
during the funeral but also during the 49-
day period, we organize chanting sessions to
help the family and relatives of the
deceased connect with Buddhism through the
Sutra of Karma, the Ullambana Sutra, the
Ksitigarbha Sutra, and the Sutra of Repentance, thus
helping the deceased.  If only they still had
feelings of affection for their family.  Even though
they die, some souls are destined to be reborn into the realm of
hungry ghosts.  When
they return home and hear the scriptures, because they have attachment to their
families, these fallen spirits will return to their families
to listen to the scriptures.  As for those who die and
are reborn into the animal realm
or hell, they cannot return to the heavenly realm
or the human realm.  This
is where we target the spirits who have been forced
into the realm of the hungry ghosts.  That's what they call a
spirit.  Hungry ghosts are people who, after
death and entering the realm of hungry ghosts,
still have attachments to their families due to their karmic connections.  Then
they can go home to their families to listen to Buddhist
scriptures and teachings that they can understand, and they can align their minds
with the minds of their families.
Knowing how to love and then turning back to
repentance, the bonds of resentment and anger that may have been formed
can be resolved through listening to
Buddhist teachings, as they attain
enlightenment.  So today, Yen would like to
share with everyone about the chanting part
of a funeral.  To Yen's right is
Buddhist follower Do Thi Nga, the head of the
chanting group at Tu Tam Buddhist temple.  On this side
is the Lan Huong Buddhist group, which has a
chanting team.  Now, let's move on to the
instructions.
So, when we go to the home of a deceased person,
what do we need to bring and
what preparations do we need in terms of outward appearance and maintaining
proper etiquette, which is called decorum?  When we
attend a funeral, we need to wear
Buddhist clothing, but it must be neat and clean; we
cannot be disheveled or
dirty.  When people see
their Buddhist followers looking
disheveled, they will look
down on Buddhism.  That is
why we must be clean, our clothes
must be dignified, and our minds must be tidy
so that through this appearance, people
will also respect our Buddhism.
That's what we need to do.
Furthermore, we must walk and
sit in rows. The way we practice Buddhism at the
temple should be reflected in our demeanor at funerals.
We should
n't arrive at a funeral home and
find it chaotic, with people
drinking alcohol,
gambling, and
sometimes shouting loudly. In rural areas, there are often
very patriarchal customs.
So sometimes, when people come, and there are
many of them who don't understand the Dharma,
they say that as Buddhists,
we must know how to be patient and how to be
joyful.  Because we understand this, we
rejoice and hope that even if
people
only hear a single verse of our chanting, it can
awaken their moral conscience, and thus
we too can practice the Dharma.  Those are the Four
Right Efforts.  So now Yen will
explain the part about entering the ceremony.
During the ceremony, the master of ceremonies will be the one to offer
incense and pay respects to the Buddha.  Then we all
chanted together under the guidance of the
officiant.  We often call them the gray boss.
When the master of ceremonies arrives, we have to
assign who will ring the bell, who will
strike the wooden clapper, and who will strike the gong.
So what is the meaning of bells, gongs, and chimes?
Firstly, the bell is for keeping them in check.   That
means when we all
hear the bell ringing, we know it's time for the
service.  Therefore, everyone will
quickly prepare themselves with proper dignity for
us to enter.  As for the wooden clapper, it's a signal for
us to read aloud; we don't read in order of who reads first or
last because there are so many of us.  If we
read the scriptures one after another, no one will be able to
concentrate on listening to and understanding them
.  Therefore, the wooden clapper also serves to stabilize the congregation and ensure
they read in unison.  The same goes for The Khanh
.  What is Khanh for?  The purpose is to let the
audience know whether the chanting is
fast or slow.  The sound of the bells
signals the start of the ceremony, the sound of the gongs signals the
start of the ceremony.  And they all rise up together to make it even.
That is to ensure
uniformity and stability in the congregation's demeanor
during chanting; the bells and
gongs are not
meant for any kind of music,
but rather to provide stability.  Music is the same;
music is just for stability.  The goal is to make
it rhyme and flow so that the listener can
easily understand the content.
That's the meaning of the martial arts bell.
So today, Yen will briefly explain
the meaning of the sutra we
need to recite and the rituals involved.  Meaning conveyed through
ritual.  First, there is the offering of
incense, and second, the paying homage to the Buddha.  Then
comes the third part, which is praising the Buddha.  In the fourth part,
we begin with the opening ceremony, starting with the sound of the
wooden clapper, and then we begin the chanting of scriptures.  And
finally, we offer our prayers and dedicate the merits to each other
.  So, the first part is the incense offering ceremony,
and we'll use the
incense offering prayer. Yen will read the entire
prayer, then explain its meaning so that
we can all reflect on it at home.
This particular incense offering prayer, when practiced, can bring about
many positive mental outcomes for
us.   With
sincere devotion, I send my thoughts on this cloud of
incense, wafting throughout the ten directions, as an offering to the
Three Jewels.  I vow to
uphold the Dharma throughout my life, following my inherent nature to do good for all sentient beings in the
universe.  May the Buddhists bless you with
unwavering Bodhi mind, steadfast wisdom in your practice, and help you escape the
ocean of suffering and delusion, quickly returning to the shore of
enlightenment.  Homage to the Bodhisattva Mahasattva, offering incense
.
Our first step in the
incense offering prayer is the prayer.  A wish is a
personal aspiration or desire.  Although it's
not like that now, that's
my heartfelt wish.  And we
'll practice just like
we would in real life.  When we are
children, we vow to study hard so that
we can support our parents in the future.  There.
That wish is a
kind and good wish from the child.  So, if you make a vow
to study hard, then the person who makes
this vow every day will
study diligently.  So, here, the word "wish" means
that we want to be like that.  Although
I'm not like that now, I
want to be.  Therefore, with sincere devotion, I send
my thoughts along with the clouds of incense,
wafting throughout the ten directions as an offering to the
Three Jewels.  That means I wish that
my sincere and respectful heart will follow the
cloud of incense.  Because when we light
incense, we always hold three sticks
, their fragrance spreading throughout the ten directions, just like the
Three Jewels.  Dear audience,
even a single breath we
exhale spreads throughout
this entire universe.  That's like when we were
kids and we studied general science
. Yen remembers that we
started studying general science in the 4th grade
.  The journey of a raindrop.
Yen remembers that song even had
illustrations.  The journey of a raindrop
is that of a single drop of water.  This drop of water
falls into the pond, evaporates, then
falls onto some piece of
land, and evaporates again.  That means
this water droplet doesn't disappear either.  That's
why, even if we drink it,
this drop of water won't disappear.
It gradually turned into
sweat.  Eventually, when our four elements
disintegrate, it all turns back into water
.  Therefore, there is water in the earth
.  No matter how many drops of water fall,
they eventually turn into vapor and
evaporate.  It's simply a matter of
how long the flow or retention lasts.  For example,
this water droplet seeps into the soil and is
then absorbed by the plant roots.  The roots absorb nutrients
and transport them throughout the plant; that's the
metabolic exchange.  And eventually, it
turned back into a drop of water.  No matter how
long it takes, it will eventually turn
back into a drop of water.  Therefore, we have
the law of conservation of energy; it is neither
created nor destroyed spontaneously
.  Therefore, we must understand
that this incense smoke is merely a
symbolic representation when we kneel down and offer
incense before the Buddha altar and
statue.  But this incense smoke
truly represents our sincere devotion, and
through this incense smoke, it will be preserved
forever in this realm, never to be
lost.  We pray that our
sincere devotion to the Buddhas, the
Dharma, the Triple Gem, and the
Sangha will be preserved forever and
never be lost.  This shows
that if we have a sincere and respectful heart, that respect will
never be lost.  It will continue to
exist within this realm of existence.  That
's what we should understand as our heartfelt wish
.  Offering to the Triple Gem
includes the Buddha, the Dharma, and the
Sangha.  I already have great reverence for the Buddhas
.  We revere him because his teachings
are the teachings that lead to liberation for all
sentient beings.  I am a practitioner of the
Dharma, which means showing reverence for the Dharma.  And
what kind of behavior is considered showing respect to the
Sangha?  I myself
regularly use the Buddha's teachings to
elevate my mind and wisdom
.  That is the inherent nature of the Three Jewels within.  Then, we should
also show respect to those who do good deeds; that is the
external Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma, Sangha).  But the teachers have the
appearance of the Three Jewels.  These are teachers who have
vowed to follow Buddhism, learning the Buddha's teachings to renounce
desires for themselves, and then teaching the Dharma
to sentient beings.  Therefore, the Sangha is
worthy of veneration.  That's how it is
.  Now, for the second part, I vow to
uphold the Dharma throughout my life, following my true nature and working together with all sentient beings in the
universe, seeking the Buddha's compassionate protection.
I made that vow, but I also have a
job to do; I made a vow
that I will choose this life, I will uphold the
Dharma.  What does it mean to uphold religious principles?  That means we keep the Dharma
in our hearts so that we can practice abandoning evil and
doing good.  I will make this vow, study
this Dharma, observe these precepts, cultivate
these merits, practice generosity, uphold the precepts, be
diligent, be patient, practice meditation, and cultivate wisdom.  That's what
I call vowing to uphold my
principles for life.  That means that whenever we
practice, we always try our best to
fulfill the vow mentioned above.
But I'm not practicing this for
myself alone; my heart is open.  I pray that
all beings in this universe may receive the
blessings of the Buddhas.  Dear
fellow practitioners, there are some who practice the Dharma but
refuse to accept seeking Buddha's blessings,
insisting instead on doing it themselves. This is what we call
arrogance and pride.  For example, if a
child wants
their life to be filled with exams and studying
until they get into university, then
that child agrees to study.  But
parental protection is about who gives you money to
go to school, who provides you with food to eat.
Then
there are the teachers who have to teach
us, and our friends who help us.  Therefore, in
our spiritual practice, we also need external
support and virtuous teachers.  That's why we
need outside
help, people with knowledge and understanding.
But who exactly are these intellectuals
?  I also need to pray to Buddha for
his protection.  That's right, our practice and study are in accordance with the
teachings of the Buddhas.  See,
didn't we say that if our hearts are kind,
we will encounter good things?
Where then does goodness come from?  Goodness must
come from good people;
it doesn't just fall from the sky naturally
.  For example, if
I were to fall today,
the person who helps me up would be a
kind person.  Then the Buddha was also a
good person.  The Buddha was also a
good person.  Although he has passed away,
he still has other manifestations.  That's why I'm
telling you all this so that
we may know about the manifestations of the
Buddhas.
We all feel that way.  There are times
when we spontaneously say hurtful things, things we
can't control, and only realize they're
hurtful after we've said them.  There are also times when our minds
spontaneously utter very
kind words, words we didn't think we
could say. In such cases,
we must understand that when those kind words, which we did
n't think were coming from us,
must have the blessings of the Buddhas.  I'm going to
tell the audience a story.   Back then, when
I was working as a seamstress, there was a woman named
Giang who worked with me, and I don't know what was wrong with her, but she
cried a lot.  Then,
after I asked her about it, since we were both
working together.  She works for
her employer, and I do sewing
as a private seamstress.  The two of them rent a
house together.  She cried a lot.  So,
after she told her story while crying,
I used every word from
Buddhist teachings to comfort her.
But she couldn't hold back her tears either.  At
that time, there was a man whom they called the
madman.  He would usually be in the
area in front of where we worked, the
area where people sold bananas. At that time,
he was wearing a pair of trousers,
one side rolled up and the other side free, and he would
hold a bottle of liquor in his hand.  As he walked along,
he kept muttering to himself, "This is what I mean
."  Don't expect too much in life.  If you wish for
too much and don't get it, you'll suffer.
In winter, don't use blankets that are too warm.  If you're wrapped in a
blanket that's too warm, you won't be able to get up.
So, he just blurted out that,
and he's crazy, not
normal.  Then I asked, "Jiang
Jiang, did you hear what that crazy man said?"
Don't expect too much in life.  If you wish for
too much and don't get it, you'll suffer.  This is
Giang's constant expectation that people will follow
her wishes.  Seeing this, I realize how much suffering I'm experiencing.
Now, if I stop expecting others to conform to
my wishes, wouldn't my suffering end
?  Then, all of a sudden, the child became completely silent
.  So, it wasn't the wise old man or the
madman who said that.  At
that moment, I thought I was at a loss; I
couldn't possibly persuade my grandchild to stop crying, even though
I had already used Buddhist
teachings.  Therefore, the Buddhas took
advantage of this man's transformation so that he could say
those words to help me.  That's because I
also vowed that if
I benefited from Buddhism and had a connection
with someone, I would bring Buddhism to
benefit them as well.  Back then, it was
just a wish, but
I didn't have the ability to do it.
Later on, we usually pray to Buddha for
protection, so when we're in a desperate situation or facing extreme difficulties,
Buddha will surely come to our rescue and help
us fulfill our wishes.  See?
Therefore, the masses must believe in the blessings
of the Buddhas.  We are not alone.
For example, in our family,
we have parents, so if we have
any difficulties, our parents can help us
.  For example, I live in Saigon, and my parents live in
Quang Ninh.  But if I'm having
financial difficulties, I can call my parents and they might be
able to help me.  I was holding the baby down,
then my parents called them, and they
arranged their household chores to look after the baby for me.  The
Buddhas are even more extraordinary.  The thing is,
we don't see the Buddhas because
their power is so great.  That's why we
pray to Buddha, we pray according to the correct Dharma.  So, if
you pray for the opportunity to practice, to follow the
precepts of the Buddha, and to
be diligent, then the Buddha will bless
you, and you will have the necessary conditions to diligently
practice.  And if we do things that are beneficial
in Buddhism, and we pray to the Buddha, the Buddha will grant
us the opportunity to do things that
are beneficial in Buddhism.  That is what we call the
power of the Buddhas.  But in
that context, it's also said that one must have a good heart, that one must
be humble.  If I were to say that
I practiced Buddhism on my own,
without the blessings or guidance of the
Buddhas, it would be a different story.  If you tell someone that you'll
do it yourself wherever you go, that person will
never be able to practice self-cultivation.  Because that
arrogant mindset is just like a
student who, even in 12th grade, says, "
I studied on my own," meaning they studied and
strived on their own—that person already has
an ungrateful heart.  Because there are
so many teachers, parents, and friends.
Even the person who sells bread to me
on the street, from whom I buy,
has helped me survive. It's
not like if I had money and there was
no one else selling food, how could I possibly eat?
Therefore, when I
achieve something, there are many
contributing factors, and many people have supported
me, which enabled me to achieve it.
Similarly, in Buddhism, one must have the
blessings of the Buddhas, Bodhisattvas,
holy monks, and all the support of
benevolent deities to create
merit; one cannot
accomplish something on their own.  There.  Once you
believe this, you know that the Buddha has
gathered for you, and your Bodhi mind becomes
firm, your wisdom in cultivating the path is steadfast, you are far from the ocean of suffering and the
source of delusion, and you quickly return to the shore of enlightenment—that is the
final step.  I have made this vow, I
practice this way, and I pray for the Buddha's blessings
for myself and all sentient beings.  And I
vowed that I would maintain the
Bodhi mind.  The Bodhi mind is steadfast.  So, how is it that
I am able to have such a firm Bodhi mind
?  Because I understand the law of cause and effect,
I understand that the good deeds I do
will bring me good rewards.  And
this act of kindness will bring blessings from the Buddhas and
Bodhisattvas.  Therefore, I have acquired
a firm Bodhi mind.  That's how
we should understand it when we offer incense
.  So, if we understand it this way, then
while we are offering incense, our minds
will become courageous, intensely and
powerfully motivating us to
practice.  Then Yen will move on to
praising Buddha.  And then there's the question for the Buddha:
what are we here for today?  Homage to the
Buddha Shakyamuni.  We
respectfully implore all Buddhas, Bodhisattvas, and holy monks to
descend to this altar to
witness and bless us.  So
we pray that the
Buddhas will come to our altar to
bless us.  In the Sutra of Altar
Offerings, in the Nike Sutra, the Buddha taught that
wherever there is an altar, there are Buddhas and Bodhisattvas.
And when virtuous and holy monks go to
that altar, there is no killing.   The
Buddha clearly taught that if there is no killing at the sacrificial altar, then the
Buddhas will come. That
is the Sacrificial Altar Sutra in the Nikaya scriptures,
which Yen posted in the article "Proper Sacrificial Rites" on her
Facebook page.  Secondly,
we ask the Buddha to reveal
who we are.  We, your disciples, belong to this monastic community.   The
Buddhist group we're talking about practices
at Ba Vang Temple.  So, what is the reason we are here
today at the invitation of the
bereaved family?  We would like to
recite the sacred Sutra of Vu Lan together with
our family to dedicate the merits to the departed
souls.  So, when we dedicate merit
to a deceased person, we mention
that person's name.   On
this auspicious occasion, we also respectfully invite
all benevolent deities and spirits to descend upon this
altar to listen to the scriptures and teachings, and to support
us.  We also invite the
ancestors of the faithful, as well as any departed
spirits with whom we have a connection, to gather at
this Dharma assembly to listen to the scriptures.  Namo Van Lai
Bodhisattva Maha Bodhisattva.
Then, I beg you, all of us
who live in this world
possess morals.  There must be a reason why
I'm here, why I'm here,
and who I'm inviting to join me in this Dharma assembly
to recite scriptures.  That
's morally right.  Well, dear fellow
practitioners, in our realm there
are many, many things that
we cannot see.  For example,
when we listen to Buddhist scriptures, we see that the
celestial beings warn the monks.  That means the
celestial beings came to carry the monks on their ascetic practice.
So we also believe that if
our hearts are so sincere, even the
celestial beings will come and carry our burdens.
So, when benevolent deities come to
encourage us, we should invite them
in.  This is the heart of my intention to encourage
the masses, and also
my humble and grateful heart, expressed
through this address to the Buddha.  Okay, after that
we'll move on to the section on praising the Buddha.
Regarding the praise of Buddha, Yen also explained its meaning so that
those who haven't read it carefully can
read it thoroughly, contemplate it, and
direct their minds to it.   The
supreme Dharma King is unmatched in the three realms
.  The teacher taught that throughout heaven there is a benevolent father to all
four kinds of beings.  This Buddhist hymn was written
by Mrs. Vo Tac Thien.  After
studying Buddhism, she found the Buddha's teachings
truly precious.  Therefore, she expressed
her feelings through her praise of Buddha.
Reading this eulogy for the Buddha
truly moves us deeply.
Mrs. Vo Tac Thien's sincere devotion to the Three Jewels and
to the teachings of Buddha.  We are deeply
grateful for her contributions.  Because sometimes
we are true Buddhist practitioners
.  But expressing what's in our hearts is
very difficult,
and sometimes we simply
lack the words to put it into words.  But
once someone has spoken it aloud,
we are truly
amazed, amazed by her virtue.
And we also acknowledge that she
is indeed a practitioner of the Dharma.  That's why
she realized how precious the Dharma is.   The
supreme Dharma King is unmatched in the three realms
.  She praised the Buddha.  She
didn't praise the Buddha for being beautiful, or for being
blessed, or for any particular reason about the Buddha;
she simply didn't praise him.  She
praised the Buddha as a being whose teachings were
supreme, unparalleled and
incomparable.  In these three realms, no one possesses
teachings or doctrines that enable
people to practice and attain
such happiness.  Therefore, he is worthy of being the teacher of both
gods and humans.  In other words, no one can compare,
no one has yet been able to offer teachings on
morality, conduct, and how to
manage one's mind in a way that brings
happiness like the Buddha's teachings.
Therefore, the praise of the supreme Dharma King
means that he possesses the greatest Dharma,
unmatched by anyone else.  His teachings
are meant to be taught to all sentient beings.
Furthermore, the benevolent father is common to all four kinds of beings.
This teaching is the father of all beings.
For example, if humans kill living beings,
the teachings of the Buddha help
people to stop killing living beings and to
love them as their own children.  Therefore,
all those who study
his teachings have compassionate hearts and
know how to love all sentient beings.  If one
practices his teachings
diligently.
Furthermore, taking refuge means choosing a single thought to completely eradicate the
karma of the three periods of time.
In other words, if we vow to turn back and take refuge in
his teachings, we will
completely eradicate the karma of the three periods:
past, present, and future.  So, if
we abandon all evil deeds,
perform all good deeds, and
practice with a liberated mind, then all
our past karma will be eliminated.
And in the present moment, we have
transformed all our karma, and in the future,
we will not have to suffer karmic consequences
because we have done good deeds.  So, taking
refuge means choosing a single thought, which means we must remember
that choosing a single thought means that in everything we do, we
must rely on the Buddha's teachings
.  There is no second thought; choose only
one thought: to rely solely on
his teachings.  We have
nowhere else to turn for support.  We no longer
rely on the teachings of liberation from
anyone else, but only on the teachings of the
Buddhas.
Praise and adoration will
last for countless eons.  Praise is something you
say to other people.  And self-praise is what
we practice.  That means that once I've practiced it,
I can bring it to others to
practice, and even if it takes countless lifetimes, the practice will
never end.  That's an eternity with no
end.  The Buddha's nature is inherently empty and
tranquil; the understanding between them is beyond comprehension.
In other words, she believes
that her purity will
align with the purity of the
Buddhas of the ten directions.  For example,
when we follow the Buddha's teachings, we
become one with the minds of all Buddhas.
That's it, the inherent goodness of every
living being is one and the same, there are no two.   The
Imperial Net symbolizes the sacred space of the ten directions, where the
Buddhas radiate brilliant light.  Up in
our heavenly realm, there is a net called the
Imperial Net.  This Imperial Net
encircles our Saha world.  There.  Therefore,
this place is like a net of pearls representing a sacred space
.  I also pray that
this imperial net will surround
my spiritual practice.  Here it is.  Our system is like
having a net, which is called the net of heaven.
This place of pure practice is
like the net of heaven.  The net of heaven
surrounds this Saha world.  Then
I also vow that my spiritual community
will be like the net of heaven,
completely surrounded.  All beings
are purified as if they were in their own sacred space
.  The Buddhas of the ten directions radiate brilliant light
.  So when we read about the
Buddhas of the ten directions radiating brilliant light,
we should know that the
manifestation of Buddhas is present everywhere in this entire universe
.  Before the throne, the image of the child
bows his head and takes the vow to become a Buddhist monk.  That
means becoming a disciple of Buddha.  We
must understand that Buddha is everywhere.
Therefore, we take refuge in his teachings at all times and in all places
.  So
when we say that before the Buddha's throne, our
image appears, we must visualize that
Buddhas are everywhere and that we can be
anywhere.  Your care and
protection.  Because when we can contemplate
in this way, our minds become more genuine, and
we dare not deceive.  For example, I
thought that since there was no Buddha,
no one would know what I was doing here.
Therefore, we can also contemplate that the
Buddha is the one who proves the law of karma for
us.  If we do evil, we must suffer the
consequences.  When we do good deeds, we receive
good blessings in return.  That's why
we need to know that Buddha is everywhere.  Therefore,
we must always be humble and
control our minds.  I bow my
head and take the vow to become a Buddhist monk.  It means bowing
down, adopting a humble heart
towards all beings, and practicing patience and
forbearance towards all beings.
That was my heart when I read the prayer of bowing my
head and taking the vow to become a Buddhist monk.  For the
Buddhas, it is absolutely essential that we always
rely on their teachings in our practice
.  Therefore, we must
fully contemplate and understand that each sentence we
read already contains the underlying thought within
our minds.  We follow that and
imagine that what we read aloud, our thoughts, our mental
perceptions, and our actions are all one and the same.  Well,
that's just a brief overview from Yen.  Of course,
what Yen said didn't
fully convey the meaning of the teachings of the esteemed
teachers.  But
Yen only shares with the public what she has actually practiced
.  A disciple of the Buddha must know how to
use all means to
encourage others to cultivate even a tiny bit of
virtuous thought towards the Dharma, and then turn
to the Buddha's teachings
to practice and attain liberation.  Ladies and gentlemen,
in each of those funerals, there are many different kinds of people
.  First, there are the relatives and
family members of the deceased.  They went
there, they listened to the scriptures, and they understood a
teaching of the Buddha in the scriptures.  They just need to utter
a compliment, saying, "Oh, Buddhist scriptures
are so beneficial."  The Buddha was absolutely right.  So,
even a simple compliment from them could create a romantic connection
for them.  Over many lifetimes, they were able to enter
the teachings of the Buddha and practice them.  Because in
Buddhist practice, only by abandoning evil and doing
good will one's own self-benefit.
So, if we just have the slightest intention of
all people who are unfamiliar with Buddhism,
we can already see that this is a meritorious deed
that a Buddhist disciple should perform.  So,
we practice for ourselves, but we
must also be grateful to the Buddhas and grateful to
those beings who, in our distant
past lives, we were
evil beings.  We have heard a
certain scripture or verse, and we have
begun to praise it.  Then, through that karmic connection and
many more lifetimes, we have come to the point where today
we truly show reverence and
obedience in practicing the Buddha's teachings
.  Therefore, we must be truly
grateful for the Dharma.  A few days ago, our
teacher taught us that the Buddhas are grateful for
meditation.  So, up until now, we have been
grateful for the Dharma.  That's it, we learn
something and we are grateful for the Dharma.  Show gratitude for the
Dharma by spreading its teachings
to all sentient beings.  This is also a
way of showing gratitude to all those who have
introduced us to
Buddhism today.  There are some
monks who say that in Buddhism, one
shouldn't read or recite scriptures because those scriptures belong to the
Brahmins.  Those are ungrateful people.
Without grace in the heart, the seed of grace is
weak, while the seed of arrogance is too strong.  That's why
we came up with that
idea.  Who are we really?
We are evil beings.  Who brought
us to Buddhism?
First, we must listen and
feel.  Then, following that cause and effect, we
experienced joy, and that's how we came to where we are
today.  Therefore, we must
take care of even the smallest acts of kindness for everyone; this is something
we all must do.  That is also
our merit, and that is also our intention
.  This is also the practice of preventing evil,
eradicating evil, and generating good, which the
Buddhas taught us to cultivate.
So, Yen requested that those who chant
these scriptures must understand the
Dharma so that when we chant,
our whole heart is put into it.  When
we put our understanding into it, then the chanting of
the scriptures will carry the meaning that is
conveyed from our hearts to the hearts of
others.  But if our own thoughts
cannot be conveyed to the thoughts of
others, then they cannot
praise us.  People will criticize.
Therefore, it is very important for those who chant scriptures to
convey the meaning of the scriptures through
their reading voice, transmitting that meaning to others.
They call it having an expressive voice.
Inspiration means conveying something from your heart
to the heart of another person.  Therefore,
we must be
serious practitioners of Buddhism in order to have
such a power of inspiration.  Dear
esteemed friends, I would like to speak about
myself not to boast, but to
inspire the public with the sincerity
of my own work.  I am someone who knows about
Buddhism, and I am also the person who has chanted
prayers at funerals the most.
In the early days of establishing the Buddhist
center and holding repentance ceremonies, I was often asked to
come when people whose parents were ill. I
recited the Ullambana Sutra most fluently, and especially the
repentance sutras about
sins,
because I was the first person in the
center to perform such duties
.
I not only read when I have duties to perform,
but I also read when I'm at home; it's a form of
spiritual practice.   The
Vô Lan Sutra has a
very powerful ability to convey Buddhist teachings.  When I chant Buddhist scriptures,
I will always remember the kindness and love
of my mother.  Yen shared with the public
that when she chanted the Vu Lan Sutra,
she remembered images of
her mother and father taking care of her from a
young age.  For example, Yen
didn't even know how old she was that year,
probably three or four years old.  Four
years old.  Right.  When Yen was four years old, she developed
asthma.  When Yen's mother
comes home from work, she has to fan her like
this so that Yen can breathe.  Because I couldn't
breathe, I saw that
my mother's fan had gotten too tired and fallen to the ground.   When the child
fell, the mother was startled and quickly
grabbed the fan to fan him
.  If it were
n't for the Vu Lan Sutra, I would rarely be able to
recall those images.  Then there were those images from
when I was little, when I was angry and sulking with my
mother.  I skipped dinner, and then
Yen's mother went to work.  But as soon as I remembered
lunch, I went home.  Hurry back.  Yen remembers
that her mother used to work in the coal mines, which was very hard work.
But I didn't know that when I was a child
.  All I know is that if I disagree with
something, I get upset and refuse to
eat.  But I never thought
my mother could love me so much.
And when it came time for dinner, right when
I got home from school, I realized I'd
skipped a meal all day.  The other day
I didn't eat breakfast, lunch
, or dinner.
My mother came home the next day.  Just as I
got home from school, I saw
my mother hurrying along, stumbling as she put
down her carrying pole, grabbed
a whip, and went inside.  Bao Yen, come here, is
there any rice? Tell me to eat, scoop it up, eat it right away, then
tell me to swallow it.  At that moment, I felt angry and
just said, "The baby is still crying like
this, how can I swallow it?"
Crying and angry at the same time.  At the time, I did
n't realize it was
my mother's love.  But now that
I'm older and have my own children
, I realize how
mixed those feelings were.  If I skipped meals all day the day before,
my mother must have been very
upset.  The next day, because of all the work, I had to work hard to
earn money to support my children.
But I also had to finish
all my work there by lunchtime and go home to get the whip
to beat myself.  But it wasn't a fight
.  To feed my child, to relieve my child's
hunger.  But when I was little, I didn't
understand that.  Then, when I
grow up, get married, and have to worry about
my children, I'll be the one responsible.  I also know
that only when I have children of my own will I truly understand the love of
parents.  But there's so
much work to do.  Because time is so hectic and busy with
life, I never have
time to think about how much my mother is grateful to me.  Therefore, when
I come home because of some
story, and my mother is old and
senile, perhaps saying one thing and then another,
if I don't recite this sutra every day, how can
I show my love and
gratitude to my mother?  There are so many
pictures of my parents. I remember
when I was a tiny baby, I peed all over my chest. I didn't even
know what I was doing back then. I was still living with my dad, I was so small, I
hadn't gone to school yet. I was still
with him, and in the morning,
I would pee
all over his chest while he slept. In the morning, my dad
would ask me, "Yen, who peed
here?" I would answer, "
No, it wasn't me who peed, it was Daddy's breast that
peed." From then on, from when I was
little until I was very old
, even when I was taking care of him when he was sick, he would always
repeat, "That little thing peed on
Daddy's breast."  He blamed his
father for urinating all over the place.  That's it, the love that parents
give us is so abundant,
and from childhood to old age, we will always
cherish the image of our parents in our hearts
.  Yen also remembered that she hadn't actually gone
anywhere wrong.  Yen's father lives in the countryside, so Yen came back
here.  When Yến's father calls, Yến says, "Dad, I'm coming home
tomorrow."  So, one of them would be the dad asking, "
Son, where are you?"  Then,
day and night, wherever we went, every
half hour or so, we
'd hear calls like, "Son, where are you?
Dad's cooking dinner and waiting for you."  Then Yen remembered
that even during the
final months of her father's life, he
was the one who proactively called her.  Yen,
where are you?  I remember that
Yen was at Tan Son Nhat airport at the time.  Yen went
to the South to help support families there
.  Yen's father said, "Oh my goodness, is it that far, my
dear?"  So, were you happy traveling like that,
or were you healthy?  That's
right, no matter how far a child goes, their parents
always love them and keep them in their
hearts.  But sometimes Yen
also receives harsh words from
unfilial children who are not far from her
.  He's your father, so
you have to take care of him.  My father didn't give birth to me, so why
should I take care of him?  Those are things
Yen has heard before.  Then,
the other day, Yen also had to
resolve many
cases.  This woman kept calling out, "Hey,
I don't know what to do now."  My
sister's child left home six months ago and has cut
off all communication via phone.  At
first, he used to text and call his friends, but
for the past two or three months, he hasn't
texted them at all.  My family is in a mess right now, so I
don't know what to do.  So, if, by
chance, a child like that were to
hear this Ullambana Sutra being recited, they would change their ways,
they would stop causing their parents suffering, and they
would regret it.  Therefore, the essence
of the Ullambana Sutra is its profound humanistic nature, which
prompts us to reflect
and remember that our parents are always in
our hearts.  It is this filial piety that
ensures that in our next life,
wherever we are born, we will be
filial people.  That's why the Ullambana Sutra is called the
Sutra of Saving Sentient Beings; that's exactly why it's called that
.  Those thoughts that were once
unfilial in our past, if we now practice peace and repentance every day, will in the
next life become filial children
, meaning we will serve
our parents better in future lives
.  And as for the hearts of
Yen's parents, Yen thinks that they will always be with
her, so even in death, they will only remain in her heart
.  If parents are not fortunate enough to be born
in a good realm like heaven or the human realm,
then if they suffer
some karmic retribution in hell or the realm of hungry ghosts,
then in this hell or the realm of hungry ghosts, the way
they treat their parents and the way they treat their parents, they should
recite scriptures, bow in reverence, and make offerings and perform meritorious deeds
according to the Buddha's teachings.  My parents
will be blessed with that.  Therefore, the
Ullambana Sutra has a salvific nature.
That means saving your mind from evil to
good.  Save your heart from being
stingy and not knowing how to show filial piety, and turn it into a heart that knows how to show filial
piety.  Therefore, the Ullambana Sutra is said to
have a very great capacity for saving sentient beings
.  Every time Yen recited the Vu Lan Sutra ten times,
the images of her parents appeared in all ten recitations.  Then, through
my own actions, I realized that
my parents also have the same kind of affection for me.  Yen remembered
this: how you treat your child is
how your parents will treat you.
Yen remembers that when she was little,
that older boy used to make a lot of
noise, sometimes two or three times a night.
So, there's a mattress like this, she pees
here, and then Yen just moves around.  Back then,
Yen didn't even know about the Vu Lan Sutra, so she moved
it to this place.  Then I put a piece of cloth on the ground and
lay down on it.  Sometimes,
when I'm breastfeeding, things get really
wet on one side of my body.
I never get annoyed either.
You'll get wet again in this spot later.
I moved to the other side of the bed,
so I ended up lying in the wet spot all day and night
.  The Vu Lan Sutra
is very authentic.  "Let the baby do the work itself," means the
baby does the work in the dry or wet areas, and the mother does it.
That is the truth.  So I
know my mother was the same, suffering a lot too
.  Then the scriptures say that a mother's
love for her child never ceases.  Yen remembers
that she suffered from asthma when she was a child.  So,
when Yen had asthma, her mother had to
take care of her day and
night while also working to support the
whole family.  Therefore, it was during my worst times that
my mother took the most care of me
.  I don't know what's wrong with me.
Yen remembers that once she had a toothache.  My tooth
hurts so much.  So, before leaving, my mother had to
carry me all the way from home to the provincial hospital,
several kilometers away, and she still had so
much work to do.  And yet, when my child has a toothache, I still have to find
time to carry him on my
back.  Back then, it was still the period of the
centrally planned economy.  I
don't even know where the money will come from.  So, when someone carries you on their
back,
I just like it.  So when we got there, they gave us some
cakes to eat, like the donuts they bought for us.
Remember to serve these donuts before you go in
.  There was a donut shop where my mom bought me a
donut to eat, and then she bought me something else.
That means both of these things taste really good.  The food was incredibly delicious
.  Well, if it tastes good,
then I already like it.  So when I go to have the tooth extracted later,
it will be very painful.  After the pain subsided, I
walked around with a
large piece of cotton in my mouth to help stop the bleeding.  My mother was carrying five of us
on her back, bouncing along as she went
.  There are five sisters in the family, so
Mom treats everyone the same way.  Drifting along
on the river, you won't cry, so don't
cry, okay?  It'll heal in a little while;
it was just an ant bite.  As she walked along, she poured all her
love into sharing her child's pain and suffering
.  Only now do I realize that no
one in this world can love me as much as my parents,
no one can save me
except the Buddhas, and no one can allow
me to repay my parents' kindness except through the
Buddha's teachings.  It's impossible to obtain.  Then
Yen recalled that when her child was in
10th grade
at Van Lang High School, she had just
started school. She didn't know
what conflicts might have arisen between classmates, but just
a month after the start of the school year, her
child came home and said that a
classmate had beaten her up – and it
was none other than the class president. The class president had even
ganged up
to beat her.
When I asked her about it, my heart
ached, and I didn't know how to protect
my child from
such beatings.  I could only advise my grandchild
to be patient, because once he gets his revenge,
he won't
hit her again next time.  Then the next day, my child came home and
told me
how I had been beaten for being patient, and it broke my heart
.  So I did indeed pray, I prayed to
Buddha, I begged Buddha
to let me bear everything
that I have to bear, let me bear it all.  Even
if you get beaten, or run over by a
car, or whatever happens to you,
please don't let anyone hit
you.  I was very distressed and
deeply unhappy.  Day and night, while
my child was at school, I was constantly worried and
tried every possible way to resolve the issue.  How can I
contact the police and the school to
protect my child?  And the pain in my
heart was that I would transfer
my child to another school.  Because I don't want my child to
go to a school where they are subjected to such abuse
again.  I don't want to at all.  I'm afraid
that because my child was beaten while studying there,
he/she will develop low self-esteem.  It no longer feels confident enough to continue
studying at that school.  And
secondly, if it hits once,
it will hit your child again the next time.  Therefore, I
really wanted to transfer my child to another school, and
I did.  I'm not
studying there anymore.  Then, deep down, I was filled with
so much worry:
my child is so naive, I don't know
how he will fare in life.  I
don't know when I'll be able to be there for
my child, when I'll be able to
support him/her, and I'm very worried, always
anxious about him/her.  There's never a moment of
rest.  So I know a mother's heart is like
that too.  That's the kind of love
a mother has for her child: caring for their present and
worrying about their future.
That's the heart of a mother.  It was
from that experience that I later
realized my parents felt the same way,
loving me very much.  When my mother arranged my marriage
, she also gave me some advice.  If
your husband ever gets angry, don't you
dare do anything rash.  Whatever it does
will ultimately harm it, my child.  That means
my mother is always like that.  Yen remembers that when she had just
given birth to her first child, her mother still
had to go to work.  Yet, she still makes
time to bathe her grandchild and check on how her child is
eating and drinking.  To be honest,
words
cannot fully express the merits and virtues of one's parents
.  It is true that the Buddha taught that the
merits of parents cannot be fully expressed, nor
can any worldly method be used to
repay their kindness.  So
why is it that when
someone dies, especially when one's parents pass away,
we recite the Ullambana Sutra for 49 days?  Only after 49 days will I have accumulated
enough virtue to transform the
unfilial karma I
've accumulated since childhood, the unfilial acts I've committed
against my parents. Only then will I
feel the need to change myself
from an unfilial person to a filial one.
Therefore, dear audience, the Buddha is the
one who brings enlightenment to all beings.  Whenever
the opportunity arose, the Buddha would devise
methods to help us elevate
our minds.  And only now do
we see that the Buddha truly
loved both mother and child.  The deaths of my mother
and father also served as an opportunity for me to repent
for my unfilial behavior and begin to cultivate a
virtuous heart.  Because I thought about it in that way,
about the merits of my parents, that's why
I was able to begin to be kind
to my siblings.  It is because of
this Vu Lan Sutra that I
know to share it with my sisters.  Even
within a family, if there are
people who are greedy for wealth and
do evil to their siblings,
we can still do it because of our parents' merits, our
extensive reading, and our cultivation of virtuous qualities.
I'm giving that portion of my assets to those
children who haven't yet learned the Dharma.  Therefore,
the merit of the Ullambana Sutra is
immense, not insignificant.  The merits of the
Buddha, the merits of the Dharma, and
our ultimate achievement are the scriptures.  Therefore,
we should recite the Buddha's teachings
every day.  So, we've
learned a lot of kindness here.  This sutra
expresses reverence and gratitude to one's parents.
That's it, we must pay homage to this scripture.  Because
without this scripture,
how could we possibly nurture our minds?
We might say that I am
filial, but in reality, it's filial piety in my
heart, yet it doesn't stir up or ignite the
passion within me.  It fails to maintain
the filial piety it once possessed.  If we
never heard these teachings in our lives
, we would only know that after the memorial service,
siblings eat together, and today
is the anniversary of our mother's passing.  That's it, sometimes coaxing the baby to eat
becomes just a way to get it to eat.
But when you persuade your mother to bring out the scriptures and recite
them, the children will naturally develop a
kind heart. So when the grandchildren recite scriptures
at a funeral, they will naturally
develop a kind heart towards
their parents in this life.  That's why the
power of the Ullambana Sutra is so great
.  So, through this, Yen also
shares with the public the Buddhist teachings
that are chanted.  Because we have very heavy karma, we
remember when we are reminded, but
forget when we are not reminded.  If we
remind ourselves of this every day,
we will do good.  Then we would simply
become obedient children.  Obeying
the Dharma means doing exactly as the scriptures teach
.  If I diligently
recite scriptures and listen to Dharma teachings every day,
my mind will become pure and virtuous.  Therefore, the
Buddha's teachings are like the mother who gives birth to
virtuous minds in us.  The
only way to repay the Buddha's kindness is to regularly recite the
scriptures and practice the Buddha's teachings.
Dear fellow practitioners, we
also have a subjective element when studying
Buddhism.  Oh my god, that's terrible! I've already read it, why do I need to
read it so much?  That's it, every time we
read, our hearts grow more
virtuous.  That's what you call preventing evil,
eradicating evil, and promoting good.  Cultivating virtue is
simply a teaching of the Buddha.  Similarly, is it
enough to teach our children something only once?  So, you two fellow practitioners, see
if you can teach him once?  That's impossible
.  Therefore, it needs a lot of teaching
.  Since we have already been unfilial children
, we must be taught a lot.  It feels just like
our children.  Today, I told you that after
you go to school, you
have to tell me what
happened at school when you get home.  If I said something
like that one day and then didn't say it again for 12 years,
how could it possibly remember? Then I would
n't be able to become its friend.
So every day I have to
tell her, "When you come home from school, if there's anything wrong
or unsatisfactory about what happened in class, please tell me
."  If I know something, I'll help
you learn how to behave and how to
become a better person.  If it's like this every day,
it will trust me, and I will be someone it can
confide in.  It's the same here.
I have to recite Buddhist scriptures every day to
awaken my virtuous heart, and only then can
I rely on the Buddha's teachings to practice
.  Here, Yen also briefly discussed the
significance of chanting
during funerals.  For example,
when parents in the family are sick, we
also come to recite Buddhist scriptures.
For example, the Sutra of the Prophet Mục Liên (Maudgalyayana)
speaks of the
many hardships faced by mothers and fathers.
So, when the parents are sick, the family holds a
ceremony to allow their children to make vows and chant
scriptures, which looks like that.  But during those 49
days, all the children underwent a
transformation, a very profound transformation.  Because of
this shift in mindset, the family's karma
changes, and when the family's karma changes, the
mother's karma also changes.
Then these children will learn to do good deeds and become
true parents, and
true children.  Therefore,
Buddhist scriptures are very beneficial.  All of
our Buddhist centers have established
chanting groups so that
we can bring Buddhist teachings into everyday life,
helping sentient beings abandon evil and do good.  So
this is the meaning of chanting.
Therefore, the chanting group is very important.
We need to practice and contemplate
thoroughly.  When we chant, we
bring our own experiences into the
scriptures, and naturally, our mental energy
will be transmitted to
others.  While reciting the Vu Lan Sutra, I
remember the image of my mother.  When I recited the
words "unfilial," I remembered
images of my own unfilial behavior,
and I felt remorse and repentance. I bowed respectfully to the
Buddhas and secretly vowed that I
would be a filial child
to my parents in future lives as well as my
parents in the past,
doing whatever I could to fulfill my filial duties.
Dear friends, as a Buddhist,
when I read the Ullambana Sutra many times,
my heart is filled with more filial piety towards my parents
.  And I was able to transform
my parents precisely because of the filial piety I
practiced in the Ullambana Sutra, which rekindled
my own filial devotion.
I can always remain in that state of filial piety
.  When I first decided to become a nun, my parents were
very opposed to it; they didn't want
me to become one.  But later,
because I practiced according to the Buddha's teachings, I
touched the hearts of my parents.  I
also know that deep down
my parents love me and support me.  Therefore,
after my father comforted me at home
, chanted the Vu Lan Sutra, and did
all my deeds, he
followed me all the way from Hung Yen province to
Ba Vang Pagoda to take refuge in the
Three Jewels.  Although my father didn't say it explicitly,
I knew that he appreciated and
admired the virtues of the teacher who had taught
his son.  My father was also relieved that
his child had a teacher to guide and educate him to become a good
person, and he felt very reassured.
I also have an old mother, my maternal grandmother, who is
n't my biological mother; she's my stepmother.  That is,
when the elderly couple from the countryside asked for
a picture of the abbot, who is
my master, to bring home, they held it up
very high.  I didn't
know either, but when I came to visit that day, I saw next to the
ancestral altar, a
very large and dignified picture of the teacher
that my grandfather had commissioned and hung
up.  It's not by chance that
the old man hung it up there; it's because he
practiced the Buddha's teachings, cultivated filial piety, and
felt grateful for the virtues of his parents.
My parents also respectfully directed their hearts towards the Three Jewels,
respected the teacher, and secretly thanked the teacher for teaching their
son to become better and better
.  I teach my child, and the teacher is
also someone who teaches my child.  That's why
my father was able to cultivate reverence for the Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha).  As for
my mother, after all this time
living with me, I haven't been filial to her, so she should probably go to a temple to become a nun
.  But deep down, she never dared to
suggest to me that she let her mother take a
picture with the teacher.  I've never heard my mother make
such a request before.  But the day we
prayed to the saint was
just over a month before my mother died.  So
when the teacher sits at the table giving a Dharma lecture, there
's a
very large screen next to him.  This is what the teacher looks like
.  At that time, my mother had
already suffered a stroke, so my fellow devotee took her
to the temple. While sitting in her wheelchair,
my mother pointed and said, "Let me go
over there so I can take a picture with the monk."  So I
pushed my mom in front of the
projector screen, and we both got to have our
picture taken with the teacher. My mom also asked if
her picture would be included in the photo.
Then the kids in the
information department said they could get in, and
my mother was very happy.  I also know that
my mother always
silently thanked the teacher for teaching
her son to be a filial child,
and that her son's filial piety wasn't something he acquired naturally
.  That's the benefit of the
Ullambana Sutra.  This allows
me to practice filial piety, and also helps
my parents to appreciate Buddhism and the
Three Jewels through the image of the
teachers.  Therefore, I also hope that all fellow
Buddhists whose families still have children and
grandchildren will introduce them
to the Ullambana Sutra so that they may
become filial children.  And
we should recite this Ullambana Sutra wherever we
have the opportunity, so that everyone can learn
about it, correct the impurities in their
hearts, and awaken the filial piety
within each person, which will
benefit both ourselves and everyone else.
I urge all of you, my fellow practitioners, to
diligently practice according to the Buddha's teachings and then
put those teachings into practice.  Whatever the circumstances,
we will bring the Buddha
's teachings that are appropriate to the capacity of
sentient beings at that time, so that
everyone can attain enlightenment in the Dharma, understand the
Dharma, abandon evil, and do good.  So, ladies and
gentlemen, the Ullambana Sutra
contains six sections that enable a
child to save their parents.  This is
Yen, who will read this because her parents copied
this scripture and respectfully gave it to many people to
recite.  Yen just explained the power
of the sutra to spread its message, so
printing and distributing this Vu Lan sutra for
everyone to read is a way for people to
cultivate virtue, and that is a meritorious deed that can be
dedicated to one's parents
.  Parents, please recite this sutra
every day and do not neglect it.  When I recite
this sutra, I feel this filial piety in
my heart.  Because we can read about our parents in future lives
as well as our deceased parents
.  When parents perform vegetarian meals as an act of repentance,
eating vegetarian food morning and evening as an offering
to their parents, this is a good thing.
Because I am acting in accordance with the Buddha's teachings, the
Buddha will visit any altar where no animals are killed.  And in those sacrificial altars where
no killing takes place, all beings in
the realms of the dead and hungry ghosts receive the offerings.
Fourth, because parents can
use the offerings to the Three Jewels as they please.  By making offerings to the Three Jewels, I consider it a
great field of merit, and I
dedicate this merit to my parents.
For the sake of our parents, during the six days of mourning, we must
remember to observe the Eight Precepts; that is, we should practice the
Eight Precepts.  So let's remember to keep
these precepts, like our vegetarian diet and our observance of these rules, so that we may be
virtuous.  Dear fellow practitioners, why is
that?  My parents, like me,
want our children to be well-behaved, intelligent, and kind
; all we need is for them to be filial to
us.  Does filial piety agree with this
?  That's all you need.  So,
by doing that, we will fulfill
our parents' wishes, and they will
be happy and find peace in the afterlife.  Because a
joyful mind leads to liberation.  See, the general
public agrees, right?  When my child comes home, all I
need is for them to do something virtuous, and
I'll be happy. I don't
need them to give me anything to eat.  I don't mind starving to death
, I don't mind dying of thirst,
as long as he grows up.  Then this
teaching is absolutely correct.  Besides, in reality,
for six days, the son must go to the
temple to commemorate his parents.  That means I have accumulated sufficient
merit and virtue.  My parents were very
happy.  Sixth, because my parents often gave alms and did
good deeds.  If I do good deeds, my
parents will be happy.  When one is happy, the mind becomes kind and virtuous; and when one is
kind and virtuous, one is reborn in a
good realm.  So, do you all agree?
Therefore, the teachings are practical
and bring benefits to the practitioner,
as well as to their deceased and future parents
.  Now, Yen is also chanting so that
we can all chant along, meaning Yen is only
chanting according to the rhyme.  That's so
that the general public behind
us can also chant.  All of
us in the congregation can chant along.  Those with
higher voices can chant higher, and those with lower voices
can chant lower.  But let us remember that
we must chant, and that chant must include what is
called harmony.  So, the people
we chant scriptures for like this
need a lot of
spiritual resources and a lot of practice.  Therefore, we
must learn to love ours.   If
they can read at a high pitch, we'll
read at a high pitch; if they can read at a low pitch, we'll read at a
low pitch.  That's also a form of love
.  Our chanting group really puts in a lot of
effort during the ceremonies.  Then
we must use
our sincere hearts to practice the Dharma in the
scriptures so that the scriptures have the power to
transform the minds of others.  Let
us respectfully clasp our hands and dedicate the merits of
our spiritual practice to this Dharma realm
.  May all sentient beings be able to
practice the teachings of the Buddha.
May I
dedicate this merit to all
disciples and sentient beings so that they may all
choose to attain Buddhahood.
[music]